- [2.1 Construct a REST API request to accomplish a task given API documentation](#21-construct-a-rest-api-request-to-accomplish-a-task-given-api-documentation)
  - [Postman](#postman)
  - [Python](#python)
  - [curl](#curl)
- [2.2 Describe common usage patterns related to webhooks](#22-describe-common-usage-patterns-related-to-webhooks)
- [2.3 Identify the constraints when consuming APIs](#23-identify-the-constraints-when-consuming-apis)
- [2.4 Explain common HTTP response codes associated with REST APIs](#24-explain-common-http-response-codes-associated-with-rest-apis)
- [2.5 Troubleshoot a problem given the HTTP response code, request and API documentation](#25-troubleshoot-a-problem-given-the-http-response-code-request-and-api-documentation)
- [2.6 Identify the parts of an HTTP response (response code, headers, body)](#26-identify-the-parts-of-an-http-response-response-code-headers-body)
  - [Common headers](#common-headers)
- [2.7 Utilize common API authentication mechanisms: basic, custom token, and API keys](#27-utilize-common-api-authentication-mechanisms-basic-custom-token-and-api-keys)
- [2.8 Compare common API styles (REST, RPC, synchronous, and asynchronous)](#28-compare-common-api-styles-rest-rpc-synchronous-and-asynchronous)
- [2.9 Construct a Python script that calls a REST API using the requests library](#29-construct-a-python-script-that-calls-a-rest-api-using-the-requests-library)

# 2.1 Construct a REST API request to accomplish a task given API documentation

## Postman

- Environments can be used for defining variables used across multiple requests.
- Collections can be used to group common requests for a particular platform. (e.g. WebEx, Firepower, DNAC). Authentication method can be defined here and inherited by requests.
- Good for testing an API calls before writing code.

## Python

```python
import requests

# Send a request to a URL
response = requests.get("http://dnacsandbox")

# Get the response body as text
text = response.text

# Get the response body as JSON
res_json = response.json()

# Authentication with username and password
res = requests.get("https://anetworkdevice", auth=("admin", "password"))

# Authentication with Bearer token
token = "ASDJGEIE349343"
headers = {"Authorization": f"Bearer {token}" }
res = requests.get("https://anetworkdevice", headers=headers)

# Send POST request with a json payload
body = {"apples": 5}
headers = {"Content-Type": "application/json"}
res = requests.post("https://anetworkdevice", headers=headers, json=body)
```

## curl

```bash
# Send a request to a URL
curl https://dnacsandbox

# Specify the method
curl -X POST https://dnacsandbox

# Add a header
curl -H 'Accept: */*' https://dnacsandbox

# Send data
curl -X POST http://dnacsandbox \
  -d '{"name": "bob"}'

# Authenticate with username and password
curl https://dnacsandbox \
  -u admin:password

# Skip certificate verification
curl -k https://dnacsandbox
```

# 2.2 Describe common usage patterns related to webhooks

- A webhook, also called a callback, is used when an endpoint needs to be notified of an event on a server.
- Usually implemented as a POST request.
- Common use cases
  - Sending a request to a chat room.
  - Triggering a step as part of a CI/CD pipeline.
  - Alerts/alarms on network devices sent to a notification system.

# 2.3 Identify the constraints when consuming APIs

- Too many requests in a short amount of time. May need to implement some kind of retry or wait mechanism to try sending fewer requests in a shorter time frame.
- Authorization
  - Can be temporary or permanent
  - May use varying methods of auth
- Server determines the format in the response body. XML, JSON, etc.

# 2.4 Explain common HTTP response codes associated with REST APIs

- 100s - Informational
  - 100 Continue
    - Everything good so far, continue as normal.
- 200s - Success
  - 200 OK
    - GET success
  - 201 Created
    - POST success
  - 202 Accepted
    - Asynchronous success
  - 204 No Content
    - Body is empty
- 300s - Redirect
  - 301 Moved Permanently
    - Permanent Redirect
  - 302 Moved Temporarily
    - Temporary Redirect
  - 304 Not Modified
    - Use what is in your cache
- 400s - Client Error
  - 400 Bad Request
    - Something bad in URL or headers
  - 401 Not Authorized
    - Unknown credentials
  - 403 Forbidden
    - Insufficient authorization
  - 404 Not Found
    - Resource does not exist
- 500s - Server Error
  - 500 Internal Server Error
    - Server had a problem it did not know how to handle
  - 501 Not Implemented
    - Method not supported
  - 502 Bad Gateway
    - Server got a bad response when it tried to send a request somewhere
  - 503 Service Unavailable
    - Server might be down or bogged down

# 2.5 Troubleshoot a problem given the HTTP response code, request and API documentation

- Bad authenticatation or insufficient authorization.
- Check the URL is correct.
- Check the parameters are correct.
- Check the response code and what the error is saying. Is it a problem on the server or with the request?
- API documentation can describe why a certain error code might be returned.
- Is a redirect happening?

# 2.6 Identify the parts of an HTTP response (response code, headers, body)

## Common headers

- Authorization
- Content-Type: this is the type of content I am sending you.
- Accept: this is the type of content I can understand.
- Cache-Control: sent by server to instruct browser how to cache.
- Set-Cookie: sent by server to instruct browser to store a cookie.
- Cookie: sent by browser to send a cookie.
- Host: domain name

```bash
# Request format
method url version
headers

body

# Example
GET http://dnacsandbox HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Authorization: Bearer XXXXXXXXX
```

```bash
# Response format
version code reason
headers

body

# Example
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "color": green
}
```

# 2.7 Utilize common API authentication mechanisms: basic, custom token, and API keys

- Basic - username and password that is Base64 encoded
- Custom token - could be implemented as a custom header or bearer token
- API keys - usually implemented as a custom header. Can be revoked.

# 2.8 Compare common API styles (REST, RPC, synchronous, and asynchronous)

- REST
  - Representational State Transfer
    - Created as a way to define how the web should be built
  - Architectural style
    - Client-server
    - Stateless
      - All state is maintained in the request, state is not saved.
    - Cacheable?
    - Uniform interface
    - Layered system
    - Code-on-demand
- RPC
  - Calling a function on a remote endpoint
- Synchronous
  - Blocks further code execution until a response is received
- Asynchronous
  - Does not block code execution while waiting for a response.
  - Can perform many requests at once.
  - Initial response may contain some kind of ID to retrieve the response at a future time.

# 2.9 Construct a Python script that calls a REST API using the requests library

- See 2.1
